---
tags: academia, teaching, linear algebra
---
# What do you do when you are a bullied academic?

This past summer I was given a course in introductory linear algebra to teach. The topics of the course, as usual, start from solving systems of linear equations, and then matrices, determinant and some matrix algebra, then moved to some topics in geometry of $\mathbb{R}^n$, linear transformations, complex numbers, and ended with eigen-things and applications like Markov precesses, and an intro to dynamical systems.

To my surprise, nowhere in the syllabus was a hint of vector spaces, linear independence, basis etc. After I proposed to the course coordinator that I shall talk about these topics, at least to make my own life easier when I'm teaching eigenvectors etc, Claude Laflamme, who *I thought* was the coordinator of the course, told me I shall not (cannot) do that, and provided no specific reasons.

Then came the textbook, which is an "open" text from a company called "lyryx". After reviewing the text, I went back to Claude Laflamme, and told him that I want to change the textbook to Gilber Strang's introduction to linear algebra, as I see no benefit in having students reading the lyryx's textbook. He insisted that the department insists on using "free" and "open source" books. Later I discovered that in the same semester the calculus had moved from the lyryx books to Stewart's! I offered to use one of the [open texts approved by American Institute of Mathematics](https://aimath.org/textbooks/) (Beezer's or Hefferon's) because I love free and open things. It was then we he got serious (mad?) and told me that I am "not allowed" to use any other books unless I show that the part related to it in lyryx's text is not well written, or is missing, and even it that case I "should" add to the text or edit it, since it is open.

Now, I understand that how open things work, I contribute to open software community, and I use them all the time. For the past 10-12 years I exclusively have used linux operating systems and "tried" to avoid "non-free" software, and slowly I've become more and successful in not using them. I write part of code that I use in my everyday computer usage, and I try to contribute as much to other open software (whether by bug report, testing, coding, or by buying coffee for the developers) as I can. But I don't think that forcing people to use something, and to fix/develop it if it doesn't do what they need, is a great way of spreading open culture. Personal ideas aside, I believe I have an academic freedom to choose the textbook, and modify the syllabus of a course that I am assigned to teach, and I feel like this has been violated.

It wasn't until several months later that through a random search on something else, I realised Claude Laflamme is the president of the company lyryx! I highly appreciate a community work to provide better learning experiences for students, and I think we should see a lot more of these movements happening all around, but the thing that I am not very much sure about is if this act by the president of the company, who ironically is in charge of a few courses in the department is legal or not. In either case, I believe such behaviours should be reviewed and regulated.

The part that bothers me personally is that a lot of formal processes at the math department of the Univeristy of Calgary are done behind closed doors, and decisions are made in a case-by-case basis with only a few, and sometimes only one or two, people involved. See my post about decisions about which sessional instructor gets paid how much for each course in the math department, how there is no record of these decisions being made, and no clarifications when I asked about it. Similarly, I never could figure out that Claude Laflamme telling me I am not allowed to change the syllabus and textbook was his personal "recommendation" to me, or it was an "order" from a department official. Again, in either case, I believe either him or the department should be held responsible for it.

To finish the story, towards the end of the semester Claude Laflamme called me in, and told me that "some" of my students aren't happy that I'm teaching vector spaces, bases, linear independence etc. After I asked about how many, he told me he had received complaints from **two **students, so he felt that he needs to *warn* me that I *cannot* "push" these topics in my assessments, which I obliged! So much for a course design, eh!

So, here is my question: Am I just overreacting to the whole thing? I know about all the political correctness, being a good citizen of the department, and all that jazz. I'm asking about mine vs. department's rights/responsibilities. Because I feel abused in so many ways and I dunno where I stand legally.
