# Instruction Manual

## A Bad Day

- on a bad day, get up and read the instruction manual, the section on bad days.
- on a bad day, set the alarm for 6:30am, but don't worry if you don't feel like getting out of the bed then, stay as long as you want.
- on a bad day, if it's a working day, call in sick and cancel all meetings, no one cares anyways.
- on a bad day, wake up and wash your face, brush your teeth, floss, even if you've done all of it the night before, but don't worry if you don't feel like doing any of it, just go on with the rest.
- on a bad day, brew the best tea you've got, and fill your biggest cup with sugar, the sugar is not going to taste sweet today, so be generous, but don't worry if you don't feel like brewing tea, any teabag would do.
- on a bad day, while your tea is being brewed, or while your teabag is being steeped, fry some eggs, bring the cheese and olives, toast some bread and slowly eat your breakfast, but don't worry if you don't feel like having breakfast, just take an energy bar and go on.
- on a bad day, connect to the loudest speaker and put on some instrumental music, but don't worry if you don't feel like listening to music, silence is fine.
- on a bad day, backup your phone, backup your laptop, backup all the things that need to be backed up, but don't worry if that's too much work, just do what you can, or nothing at all.
- on a bad day, vacuum the floor, wash all the dishes from last night, and do the laundry, but don't worry if it feels like a lot of work, you can do it later anyways.
- on a bad day, take your notebook and write down what you feel like, but don't worry if you don't feel like anything, write nothing then.
- on a bad day, do some arts, some calligraphy, or some woodworking maybe, or even paint if you can, woodworking eh? but don't worry if you don't feel like it.
- on a bad day, if you're doing some arts, it would be nice if you have brewed some tea, that you could sip on while doing it, but don't worry if you haven't made it, just boil some water and make some tea, now is the next best time to do so.
- on a bad day, if you don't want to do any of the above, play some music, but you have to stop the music you're playing loud, but don't worry if you don't feel like it, just continue listening.
- on a bad day, charge your phone somewhere away from yourself, so that you're not constantly on the phone, but don't worry if you can't let go of your phone for a minute, just scroll till your hands get numb.
- on a bad day, call your family, look happy and smile big, ask how they're doing and pay attention, but don't worry if your don't want to show your face, just turn off the video and tell the internet is slow.
- on a bad day, when talking to your family make sure your voice is happy, but don't worry if it shakes, just hang up, send a message that you got disconnected and can't connect.
- on a bad day, cry, that is fine, but don't worry if the tears don't drop, they will when they need to.
- on a bad day, be kind, it might be a bad day for others too.
- on a bad day, if you hadn't have the energy to cancel all the meetings, go to the meetings, smile big, and focus on the job, but don't worry if your smile is not big, no one cares anyways.
- on a bad day, find something to distract yourself, go for a run, a bike ride, a climb, a swim maybe, but don't worry if you can't gather your energy to move, just sit on the couch and be.
- on a bad day, don't read the news, it's all about war, it's all about fights, it's all about people being killed, it's all about some rich people destroying the world, but don't worry if you can't help it, just scroll till your brain hurts.
- on a bad day, send some messages to your friends and ask how they're doing, they will ask how you're doing and your can tell them you are having a bad day, they won't solve your problems, but they make it better.
- on a bad day, take your notebook and read about your good days, read about your bad days, read about the absolutely boring days, but don't worry if you don't feel like reading, or if you haven't written anything, just take a notebook and look at it.
- on a bad day, take a shower, shave your beard and your head, but don't worry if you don't feel like getting wet, just go on.
- on a bad day, water your plants, but don't worry if you can't carry yourself to do so, they've seen worse days.
- on a bad day, cook some steak, with mashed potatoes, and a big salad and open a bottle of wine, but don't worry if you don't feel like eating, just order a pickup.
- on a bad day, go out to pick up your order, it's good to be outside, walk slowly, notice the world outside, but don't worry if you don't want to see people, just get it delivered.
- on a bad day, sort through your mail, throw away the junk, pay what needs paying, but don't worry if it feels overwhelming, bills can wait another day, or week.
- on a bad day, call an old friend, the one you haven't talked to in months, catch up properly, but don't worry if you don't feel like explaining the gap, just send a text instead.
- on a bad day, clean out your email inbox, delete what you don't need, organize what you do, but don't worry if there are thousands, mark all as read.
- on a bad day, read a book That's been sitting on the shelf forever, but don't worry if you can't focus, just hold the book and remember you like stories.
- on a bad day, do anything, or nothing, it is fine.
